e
morning
folks you guys can give me a heads up on
the
audio you should be seeing the charts
now I'm checking Twitter see if you guys
can hear me just give me a 5x
five mum thank
you C Max thank you sir all right so
so Eduardo thank
you all right so we have a economic news
driver out in a couple
minutes bro says I wonder if the trade
if it didn't pay out if it would have
been recorded and shared he wasn't
watching the live stream yesterday
apparently
and you wonder why I do it like this
it's
entertainment all right so we have the
one minute chart over here and I'm going
to take all this stuff off here because
it was in the
recording so you can watch
that whole business pan out on
the Twitter example just shared
the management the entering all this but
I want to go out to a 15-minute chart
real quick because we have a few minutes
before we get to
the news
driver all right
so going into this economic news they
use these as volatility
injections meaning that they're going to
use it as an excuse basically as the why
price
moved when in fact it's
just man manual
renion today is Wednesday of non-front
payroll and this is typically when I
tell my students to sit still don't do
anything
anything if you haven't made money on
the week yet don't bother trying you can
demo trade you can paper trade tape read
whatnot
but Wednesday after 11 o'clock in the
morning the market gets into a very
challenging Market condition for new
students not experienced Traders I'm not
saying that if you don't know how to
trade obviously you shouldn't be in here
when the Market's more inclined to be
problematic
so we have sell side
here I will be
short today so I'll probably be here
till like 10 o'clock and then I'm going
to
bounce I want to get caught up on some
uh some things for the house
that I want to make sure I have it
plenty of if you haven't already gone
out and stocked up on some things in
your United States you might want to do
that cuz I was out last night
getting bottled water and paper towels
just to get some more of them and it was
wild it was
like Black Friday when everybody goes
out and goes crazy shopping it was just
like that all the water was
gone toilet paper gone paper towels
[Music]
gone and it's because of the strike with
the doc
workers
so just a little Public Service
Announcement all right so that's my
focus for where I think they're going to
Target individual specific liquidity now
Above This liquidity we have this civy
in here
like
that and
then if you recall what I opened up the
week with with my analysis I showed you
where on the weekly
chart the blue shaded area here on this
15-minute chart here that is the weekly
buy B sell efficiency and that's the
midpoint of it so weekly busy that was
the uh the framework basically off of
this
entry this drive down
in all this movement here was based on
just anticipating a run up into these
relative equal highs right there because
it's pre-market because it's nonfarm
payroll protocol meaning that you got to
keep things real light try to be uh
Nimble as possible or don't trade if you
can't be nimble because you don't know
what you're doing it's better to sit on
the sidelines Wednesday Thursday and
Friday of nonfarm
payroll yes nonfarm payroll is a event
at 8:30 on Friday this coming week but
it's the conditions that that week every
single month this is what we do but we
always try to go in and try to trade on
the Monday of that week because the
early word gets the worm here okay it's
not like the the analogy where the
second mouse gets the cheese
in this case it's the early bird gets
the worm and you want to be able to get
in there and find the setups when
they're clean on Monday and Tuesday
after that things get a little bit more
5050 and as we get into Thursday it
becomes a whole lot more potluck and it
it's challenging for a new student so to
protect them also to remind them that
they're infancy as a as a Speculator or
student in price action it's not going
to serve them well to be in there trying
to do something because it's going to
frustrate it's going to cause you a
second guess you're probably going to do
it wrong and you're going to retain
that and immortalize it as something
that was painful for yourself and simply
just avoiding it not trying to push and
you know push a button trying to make
yourself feel good about getting
something right don't expect to be right
and that way you can't hurt your
feelings right so we have a little bit
of cells side resting below here you can
see it here also on the 15sec
[Music]
chart sell sides below there and we just
traded to the top of that Weekly buy
side balance cell
efficiency now because we hit our Target
I open with on Monday we traded down
into it we left a little portion of it
open I
favor an attempt to try to go higher
only because of the long-term Trend
being bullish it's an election year
they're trying to fluff this thing up so
uh just be mindful of that
so over here if you look at this portion
of price
action we've disrupted these relative
equal highs traded up into this cell
side imbalance by
efficiency right
there and then there's a small little
minor buy side Li pool there
now if it would have done something like
this watch if it would have dropped
down traded below both of these lows
here initially and then rallied up and
had this fair value got like that I
would be in there long as it went below
that
Candlestick and I'd look for a run up
into there but because we haven't done
that yet I'd sit
still so there's conditions if this then
do that if it does this but hasn't done
something else then you have another
decision making
notice we're in the upper
quadrant of that Weekly B balance C
efficiency everything in the blue area
that is that Weekly
chart and this Ticky out there right
remind you because some of you
haven't watched everything or
you cherry pick what you want to watch
because they're too long of a video
get to the point here's that the buy
side and balance sell sign efficiency
this individual Candlestick that's that
blue shaded area I told you when we were
up here we're likely to trade down into
that this week and we've
done a swimming job
of like it swimming Guys across the pond
that's something right out of your uh
vocabulary
see how we got real close to the low of
it but that that then we stopped
so and we are here now
so if it's going to go higher I'd prefer
it to go down here and disrupt all this
stuff here because this is too smooth
and even though we have um nothing
really to speak of at
8:30 the
U theago usually uses 8:30
anyway because it's coded to do
so meaning that uh price will start
spooling around 8:30 going into the 9:00
hour
and then it'll be the countdown to
opening bell so let's go back and put
this in a five FIV minute
chart got a lot of uh feedback from
yesterday's live stream you guys like
that I give give yourself something to
do when you're watching price action
practice it's not about being right or
wrong but you'll condition yourself to
see what it is you're asking me to teach
you that only experience will give you
the right fair value
Gap as you are probably aware uh things
have kicked off over there in the Middle
East and that is going to be a little
bit of a stick in the
crawl for the markets so they will not
waste that opportunity obviously they
will punish individuals that don't know
very much about trading here's a little
minor bze
resting there as
well so at the moment as we go into
8:30 we have this byy
side to left and then we have the
[Music]
again I unless something really
unexpected comes out left field like
some kind of personal um not personal
some kind of
uh Middle East event that really is
shocking some kind of major attack
unfolds um I don't expect the market to
drop I expect it to try to keep working
towards its
higher long-term
Trend and that's because it's an
election year so they're they're
constantly fluffing this thing
up there's no reason for stocks to be
where they're at but you that's the game
it's rigged it's artificial and stupid
people think that that is a barometer
for the economy and it's
not it's the scoreboard for stupid
people versus smart people
okay see that see this volume bound
here that actually overlays with this
little fair value Gap ahead of that
minor buy side and then we have the B
side here at 996
even so there's two things converging
there and there's a small little volume
of ounce as well
what's the benefit of having the
um the expectation that a less informed
or less experienced student studying
price action why should they
try not to trade on the Wednesday the
Thursday and the Friday of nonr
P because what you're going to demand in
terms
of accuracy precision correctness not
that that's important but in the
beginning you as a student you emphasize
that more than it's required you have to
be very forgiving in the
beginning so if you
have given yourself the permission
to not engage during these times you
will not pick up bad habits you will not
create toxic thinking you'll not have
a bad experience when you're probably
going to go into it looking for these
tools these Concepts to do well in your
hands when
everything every school of thought is
going to be spinning their wheels many
times on this week because yes
everyone's
approach can find a set up but if you
keep trading keep trading keep trading
eventually you're going to get beat up
because the market tends to just not
want to go
anywhere it just sits still and it
trades in these small little tiny ranges
and by defining where the closest buy
side or buy stops or the closest sell
side or sell stops where they're at you
can get a better feel for what they're
trying to to
attack and usually whatever initial sell
side or buy side's
taken all you have to do is flip it and
go the other direction that's usually
how I approach if I'm going to be
trading on the Wednesday Thursday or
Friday of non pay week I'm usually doing
that so I I identify the pools of
liquidity and I want to see them engaged
trade through them and then once it does
it I would expect it to trade to the buy
side here or vice Versa if it trades to
the buy side here because we're in this
part of the week where I don't expect
sustained price runs like I don't I
don't look for that so to be nimble you
look for these types of things to study
in practice and if you get stopped out
if it keeps running who cares you treat
it the same way you did yesterday
everything's a new learning experience
so look what they did they took it up
real close to these Highs but stopped
short of it and now we're sitting down
here at the top of that Weekly buy side
imbalance cellid efficiency and we
traded down into this volume imbalance
and Order
block so if it's bullish it should start
to spool
here and run to the buy
side what would make that idea stronger
if it would have started by going down
below this low here first and then
traded where it's at now not that it
can't do it at this outline here it just
means that it's better to do that now
why would why would that make that
better by going down here
first before every substantial price run
or let me say differently before every
significant price run what's the
significant price run something that you
can you can trade it you can predict it
and it has a price run that is
not just 10 handles um not 20 handles
but you know 30 50 or more that type of
price run
usually is the result after seeing some
kind of liquidity taken and in this
event we see relative equal
lows think about the higher time frame
it's it's bullish it's an election year
they keep propping it up anytime it goes
down they keep sending it higher
so if it goes down to take sell stops
here first and then rallies up it's
easier to trust any discount array if it
does this first because it's already
taken out people that would be
profitable right if it went higher so by
going down it tricks people into
thinking it broke support so therefore
they're going to go short on a
breakout or it goes down below that low
to stop out anyone that's long so
they're not allowed to take take a ride
higher so especially during the
Wednesday Thursday and Friday of non
from pero week this is my initial go-to
strategy where I'm looking at watching
price I have to identify where the
near-term buy side and sell side is and
I have to wait for one of these
liquidities to be taken first we have
not seen either one of them yet so
that's why we're indifferent right now
we're just sitting still I'm just
outlining if I would have seen this one
taken first by going down first and then
it rallied like that I would have been
using the things up here as I mentioned
earlier to get along to take a a ride up
into this here and maybe explore if you
can get to a higher time
frame uh P
liquidity but because we're just still
building these areas where stops are
building there's traders in here doing
buying and selling they are absolutely
happening but the buying and selling
pressure
has yet to take them below the lows or
above the highs so since it's a game
of well we'll borrow the term I used for
the drill yesterday it's a game of
volatility pinball where it's just going
to bang around and knock into stops and
not have any directional bias that is
going to serve you on the daily Trend so
avoid having the mindset of having a
daily Trend or a trending day One n for
FAL weeks just expect it to be range
bound expect it to B go to the buy stops
bump
them do like a broken wing trick like
okay yeah I'm gonna I'm going to start
trending higher and then stop go back
into the range or trade down to the cell
side and then go right back in the
middle of range again so it's not like
we're trying to time a trend entry we're
just looking for how the market will use
the liquidity and you can clearly see
that they did not take those yet and
they did not take these yet so these are
the initial ones and because they're so
close to to the market that's why
they're minor sells side
liquidity
primary buy side and sell side we look
at that when we get into
9:00 at 9:00 the same thing I just did
here on a 5 minute and one minute chart
and 15-minute chart you would annotate
that same way Looking for clean highs
clean lows or a singular high or a
singular
low and they are your primary buy side
and sell side liquidity pools but you
don't look for them until you get to
9:00 why because you're waiting for the
opening bell and after the opening bell
it's going to run for one of those pools
of liquidity what you're trying to do
is you're looking for instances where
you already have a higher time frame
daily weekly the market already drawn to
where I outlined on Monday like I'm I'm
completely satisfied for this week but
I'm just streaming because I told you I
would do it this week but we don't have
to spend the entirety of what we've been
doing the last two days I'm only going
to stay you long enough to to go through
the opening bell with you the first 30
minutes of opening range and then I'm
going to I'm going to break session with
you but
the the focus for you is to determine
what it's likely to do on that weekly
and daily
chart and let's assume that we didn't
trade down into the blue shaded area
which is that Weekly buy B cell s
efficiency that outlined on Monday at
the beginning of the live stream go
watch that
again it is say it was lower still and
we haven't traded down there then I
would favor something like running up
here taking the buy side and then
selling off and then using every premium
array some kind of fair value Gap some
kind of a bearish order block bearish
breaker I would use things like that to
get short to ride down into my weekly
and or daily higher time frame draw on
it on on liquidity so because it's
already done what it was outlined for me
for my analysis this week and because
it's a nonfarm peoll week it's a short
week for me like I wouldn't be trying to
do anything else but to prove that my
Concepts can still fet out setups even
in these types of conditions I'm sitting
with you outlining price but there's no
there's no trade here right now the
trade I just showed early on that was
available simply because we haven't got
that close to the first news driver that
came out today at
8:15 and if you're not looking at
economic calendar you can find that on
forexfactory.com or econom day calendar
uh they're both free you don't have to
pay for anything to have it and you need
to know
what what injections of volatility are
likely to uh enter the
marketplace up closed candle after
running up they left these relative
equal highs here we're trading right at
the bottom of that Candlestick right
there see
that so let me annotate that you'll see
it you'll see it populate on the chart
to
the right on that 15c we're just
hammering on the bottom of this up
closed
candle and
I would
prefer to see it use this information
here to probe the cell side resting
below here we have a down Clos
candle there so as long as it stays
above the mean threshold of this down
Clos
candle that would be in my in my mind
bullish
[Music]
so there's the main threshold of the
down closed candle it's a bullish uh
water block so if it does go below here
my eyes are focused on this individual
Candlestick if we trade through it and
it has a close
below then and what do I me that well
the order block is on what time frame
what's this time frame up
here 5 minute so it would if it lays a
body down and puts it below the middle
of this and it closes down what that has
done is it's breached its mean threshold
it means it's it's indicating that this
is not a good area to expect price to
stop at it may go lower not all the time
it just means that chances are it's more
likely it's going to go lower than it
would be if it was to just trade down
into it in the upper half and never even
touch the mean threshold which is an
ideal situation but you never want to
see it explore on a on a
Candlestick
bodies um delivery into the lower half
of a potential bullish order
block all right we're back at the top of
that weekly buyid and Bal cellid
efficiency still no setups looking for
things and what I would like to see is
not an entry
I just want to see either one of these
pools of liquidity traded to I I don't
personally care really which one it does
but that's what we're going to be
observing this morning is how it behaves
once it trades to here or it trades to
here does it use the other one as
a catalyst for uh trading to
it I should have I should have stopped
before said I don't care I I really
prefer like I said earlier I prefer it
to take the cell side first because that
makes it good for when it goes above
here it could explore a little bit
higher but down here it would be better
for it to hit it
first attack that relative equal low and
then go higher it doesn't need to do it
it just means that for me to feel
confident about reading the tape with
you Al and and call out individual PD
arays that I trust I'd prefer they take
the liquidity out
underneath the market
first by doing that what that is
essentially uh occurring is smart
money's buying or they would have the
opportunity to buy at a cheap discount
price because they're sellers below
these relative equal lows protecting
their long positions so if it trades
below there those sell stops become
Market orders to sell at the market so
smart money can accumulate their Longs
by just going in and buying that up
until it's exhausted and then once that
sell side's been engaged smart money's
now on board with long positions early
Longs are now stopped out with a
loss breakout artists that want to sell
short on a breakout they're tripped in
short so they're trapped short and then
the market will reprice
higher so because I'm siding on the The
Daily long-term higher time frame Trend
being bullish because it's an election
year because they're trying to keep the
market propped up they don't want to
have an election um if if you think
we're going to have one um if you look
at the administration it's in power
right
now they don't want to have anything
that looks like they didn't do well and
the Public's perspective is what the
stock market equals the economy and it's
not so that's why you're seeing this
artificial propping up of the stock
Market because there's literally no
reason for any of these stocks to be
where they're
at but it convinces the the dumb money
in the street that hey look at the
economy is Raging it's strong it's good
no it's not how much is your groceries
costing you how much your how much does
your utility bill cost you car insurance
it's G up hasn't it it's going up 30%
next year too get
ready and that's just preliminary
expectations if we start seeing wild
stuff going on people tearing up stuff
then your premium is going to go up even
higher than
that so all you guys with your fancy
cars we're going to see how long you
want to keep them next
year yeah about
it now it could do something like this
because we still have time the uh it
could take the buy side don't run after
doing that take the buy side come all
the way back down and hit the the cell
side and then range in
between the high that it forms here and
whatever low it makes going into opening
bell that would be a scenario
it's it's a very
challenging position for me to be in on
a non front P roll because I know that
there's literally so many things that
could cause the market to do certain
things that would upset any trade idea
that I or anyone else with another
methodology would have and that's that's
exactly why I tell my students don't
touch it on Wednesday Thursday and
Friday now I'm sticking to the rules
where you can trade the morning
session but when we were trading uh and
teaching Forex by 7 o'clock in the
morning if you didn't have your trade on
you you have to be done like you're not
allowed to you're not allowed to do
anything
so we're rolling into uh the morning
session here where for stock index
Futures if you can trade the pre session
pre-market hours which what you watch me
do on Twitter um that's fine I have no
problem with that I would never try to
say well that's something you shouldn't
have done
all right so we have two poles of
liquidity on the
upside
here and there's one resting right up
here so
on non far payroll weeks and on fomc
weeks and CPI week and PPI weeks those
reports those
events they are going to be the weeks
that if you were asking me like when
when am I less active when do I let a
lot of Trades pan byy and or pass by not
doing anything with execution wise it's
those weeks barring anything else
outside of those
individual impactful uh events again
I'll say them again it's
fomc non-farm
payroll
CPI and
PPI those
big high energy
attraction uh reports or events
they use those
for disruption and they'll use those big
report information that it's dumped at
8:30 or whatever or in the afternoon for
fomc they're used as a perfect smoke
screen to justify oh well look you know
the this report callused the market to
go here but when you look at the data
and if you subscribe to the view that
these people use for using fundamental
data to me you're fundamentally stupid
to just look at the data because that
data is already cooked in it's it's
already baked in the price so I don't
ever worry about the raw information I'm
watching the the level of
energy right ahead and then at the time
of the news driver releasing and then
what we see immediately after that where
does the market go and there's many
times in my last 30 years where I've
watched I used to the study fundamentals
I thought for sure I was going to figure
it out and nobody figures it out it's
such a long-term thing it's not it's not
useful on an intraday basis so and the
reason why I say that is because the raw
information that comes out with these
impactful news
drivers they may be viewed from the
fundamentalist perspective that this
should be constructive or bullish for
equities or stocks therefore the stock
index should go higher that means it
should be bullish right but what happens
sometimes more times than you want to
see it it'll go down when it should be
interpreted as
bullish or it'll go up when it should be
interpreted as bearish so what are you
left
with it didn't take me long to see that
this is garbage and it was tricking me
and I used to have Services where I
would subscribe to that were supposedly
going to give me the you the tip
beforehand so I I I got scammed before I
did all that same stuff you probably
thought about
doing and none of that stuff works so
what I just concluded was I I'm going to
anticipate a lot of volatility around
these
reports and if I don't have
something clearcut as the where I think
it's going to go on a weekly chart and a
daily
chart I'm probably going to do nothing
and I'm going to do very little trading
on that week I'm going to try to focus
on early part of the week ahead of
that heavy news impact
driver what I'm saying is a a red folder
or high impact news event or report or a
medium or orange colored folder report
in deference to the people that use
Forex factories calendar you won't see
that on the econ day econ day's calendar
is a little bit more plain Jan but the U
the
emphasis the uh the magnitude of how
much volatility will come into the
marketplace is not directly linked to
the report itself it's the fact
that the hand that is in control of
price this you know this entity okay
will call collectively the market maker
they will many times move the market to
a degree
and have such a wide disparity about
where price was before the report hits
the market and then minutes after and
that's untradeable you cannot enter in
the marketplace when it's like that and
trading ahead of that is stupid
so because it creates the it's an
invitation to lose money basically is
what I'm getting at when you're trading
on the Wednesday Thursday and Friday if
not Fromm payroll now how can you skew
those odds because you want to trade on
Friday not far payroll you have to to
wait until 8:30 hits and then after the
Bell opens then you can trade it
normally but at 8:30 you should not be
in the market ahead of time no way
absolutely not because it's a carnival
ride as you'll see this Friday it'll be
wild and I've I've watched instances
where in one minute you know we've had
250 plus
handles on a non-front feral event and
one
Candlestick in one minute prices
traversed that much in NASDAQ and you
think you're going to trade that you
can't you can't afford to be wrong if
you're positioned ahead of it and these
are instances where you see the the data
would have been viewed as bullish or
bearish and the market does the opposite
so what happens then the fundamentalists
are thinking well I was fundamentally
wrong here so I stick to the
technicals so when I'm looking at the
markets I'm focusing on technically
speaking this is what I think the
Market's going to do whereas a
fundamentalist let's say fundamentally
speaking I believe that the interest
rates are going to cause the market to
this this this this and it has a very
long-term macro perspective over over
price which I won't argue with against
that but for day trading purposes very
very short-term intraday fluctuations
the data itself isn't
necessarily going to benefit you all the
time so I just look for these impactful
days on the economic calendar
to
anticipate the market being
harder that given week and if I have the
opportunity to trade early in the week
to get whatever scratch I'm trying to
get I'm going to do that and then I'll
demo trade paper trade encourage my
students through tape reading the rest
of the time so it removes any inherent
risks that I could get caught up in
because I I can hurt myself in those
environments because there's something
in the marketplace that's
cannibalizing more so than when it's not
and you'll understand that the more time
you spend studying and being aware of
the economic calendar when these reports
are due they're always scheduled in
advance you can look at an economic
calendar for next month and you'll see
where the CPI and the PPI numbers are
going to be you can see where the nonr
payroll is going to be it tells you the
very time it's get it's being released
so they're not hiding it from you so you
can schedule all of your trading in
advance and you can also schedule when
you're going to sit still and not do
anything but how much effort have you
placed in that in terms of your trading
looking for times when you simply are
not going to do something where you
incur risk you probably never even
thought about it like that but that's
exactly what a professional Trader does
they identify problem areas they don't
want to be caught Behind Enemy Lines
when they're going to be outgunned
outmanned and that's essentially what
you're trying to do when you're trading
around real close to these big news
events and nonfarm payroll is a poster
child for Wrecking and blowing accounts
I have blown accounts using it I have
made a little bit of money and that
little bit of money that I made on it
being right once in a few
times gave me early on this insatiable
desire to conquer it and I have never
been able to conquer it meaning that I
can't be right about where it's going to
go before that employment data is
released I can't trust that and I've
hurt myself trying to do that so I don't
need to do that you know in the future
anymore because I've done enough damage
to myself and I've learned that the PPI
and the CPI number can rip your head off
literally instantly and if you're wrong
it's
unforgiving so while all those reports
are tradable after they release to the
marketplace and let some time minimum 15
minutes wait for the news to hit
whatever happens for the next 15
minutes then start studying price and
you're going to be looking for one
minute and sub one minute price delivery
if you start noticing that how PD arrays
are not being respected there's there's
no Rhyme or Reason why it's stopping and
turning where it is and it's just being
real sporadic that means they're still
in there doing stuff don't touch it
don't put your hands on it at all and
then wait for the pdas like the
imbalances like the fair value Gap um if
it starts um supporting price at the
consequent encroachment that's usually
one of the real quick go-to things I
like to look for because the middle of a
fair value gra is until I taught it to
you nobody's concerned about it nobody's
ever paying any attention to it but when
there is manipulation in in the
marketplace you're not going to see that
consequent encroachment being respect Ed
it's going to eat right through the
entire fair value Gap and that's
indicating that what you got to sit
still still you have to just remain
still and let the market settle that
down and when they stop being in there
manually you'll be able to recognize
that moment when you can start seeing
the Precision elements that I teach my
Concepts provide you but you have to be
able to see it on the one minute chart
and under one minute chart if you don't
see that on a PPI number CPI number or
nonr payroll day don't touch it yet so
it allows you to know exactly when it's
safe to go back in the waters because as
long as you're seeing pdas not being
respected at all and they trading
through them and the the levels that
would otherwise stop right on the tick
if that's not happening you have no
green light to go back in or enter
there's sharks in the water and you got
to wait just simply wait and it's an
easy thing to do once you understand
what I this gave you it's a it's it's a
protocol that
preserves well it's designed to preserve
your capital and it's also to
preserve the mental capacity and Equity
that you have because you can not only
blow your account but you can also wear
yourself down mentally and even though
you may have Equity still in your
account you have now hurt yourself and
scared yourself so bad that
you've made it impossible to take
another trade for that day and then when
your trade really does set up and the
manual invention has stopped and
precision elements are back in there
you're going to be like a deer in
headlights you're going to be paralyzed
and then when it moves you're going to
wish you were part of it and one of two
things are going to happen it's going to
go entirely to where you thought it was
going to go and you didn't do anything
and you're going to beat yourself up
about it or you're going to chase
price and argue with yourself I knew I
should have just took this but now look
what you made me do look what you made
me do Michael I had to go in here and
buy this 30 handles higher than I
you know if I would have just did what I
wanted to do and not listen to
you this is the internal dialogue that
every Trader goes through until they
figure out when not to do something and
that when not to do something is
critical factor it's a skill set that in
my opinion is worth more than you
learning how to enter
good it's better than a a very small
Ultra tight stop
loss because if you don't know what
you're doing and you keep Trading even
with your small Ultra small stop loss
and you could be right on the side of
the marketplace your entries could be
great but your stop loss pment uh stop
loss stop loss placement may not
be all that
sharp you got a small stop yeah but
you're getting constantly beat up and
chopped up because you don't know to
stay out of the
market remember when manual intervention
is
underway opport
unities are cleverly disguised
impossibilities it's going to look like
it's right there ready to be plucked off
the vine and
enjoyed but as soon as you grab it and
you pull it snake's going to bite you
and that's exactly what happens when
there's manual intervention underway so
I'm I'm telling you that because you
want to be looking for that after we get
through the morning session of of
Wednesday this morning today start
looking for those
elements in price
action especially start looking for it
like tomorrow at 8:30 uh there's
employment data that's being released
and then there's the actual non-front
payroll released on Friday at
8:30 watch the one minute in the
15-second chart on your own don't just
listen to what I'm jawboning about watch
and see and you'll see either an absence
of the Precision which means that
they're in there still manually
intervening they're they're moving mov
price around where they
want whereas any other time it's just AI
driven it's just it's just doing its own
thing
scripted when they're in there moving
stuff around they're not going to move
the price right to the tick they're
going
to raise it up to take out a high and go
Way Beyond what you expect it to go to
and then or drop it down way below an
old low and they're not going to lay
that low down on top of anything that
would be
Precision it's just going to be a big
abrupt move and it that's the stuff that
hurts you and it's also the same types
of things that cause you to have
unrealistic fears because these big wide
title waves or tsunami type price runs
that just completely decimate people if
they're on the wrong side of the
marketplace they don't just hop they
they don't just hop out in front of you
all the time they're occurring around
economic weeks that have these big news
drivers so it's like a it's like a
hazard
sign you know you drive around in the
mountains and you see these signs that
says You Falling Rocks does that mean
that are the Rocks going to fall in your
ass right then and there no it doesn't
mean that but guess what it could so be
mindful of it just be aware start having
a little bit more awareness of you know
do you see little plumes of
dust ahead that maybe a smaller rock has
started to fall before for the bigger
ones are starting to come down behind it
so it allows you to prepare for rough
terrain by looking at your economic
calendar knowing where these medium
impact and high impact news drivers are
in the week that you're about to trade
or in the present week while you're
trading you're
informed as a Trader if you know this
and now you know how to see when they're
in there manually
intervening the market conditions
ahead of non-front payroll is what
you're seeing here this is typical of
non-front payroll it's just range bound
it's just listless type trading it's
wonderful study material it absolutely
is wonderful to study it but it's
not enticing enough in the beginning for
new students to stick with it because
they want to see Dynamic big price runs
you they want to see their little
indicators give them their their entry
and it runs you know 100 handles and
they can go show with they made on on
social
media you need to strip all that stuff
away when it's not from payroll week
because ahead of that number on Friday
you're going to see a lot of this range
bound stuff and now it exasperates this
likelihood when you have things that's
going on in the Middle East because the
hand the market makers are formulating
strategies right now how they can hurt
people with what's going on over over
there and how can they unseat somebody
to make money by that happening that's
what's going on so when the Market's
being held like this in his range it's
not because there's a lack of buying and
selling pressure it's not because
there's a lack of interest in
trading it's not because support
suddenly uh you know starts working and
and resistance starts working it means
that they're holding it here and they're
engineering Market sentiment means
they're controlling and influencing
let's say it that way they're
influencing the expectations of
investors and
Traders because as long as we start
working towards these higher highs up in
here anytime we go above it what do we
feel oh I wonder if it wants to keep
going higher and less inform for Traders
see that as oh it broke out that's
resistance broken it's going to keep
going higher and anyone that's done that
thus far they're sitting in in this this
drop down and they may have gotten
excited when it ried up like this but
then di down below relative equal
lows so you want to spend a lot of time
on nonfarm payroll week at Wednesday
Thursday and Friday and try to put
yourself in the seat of a retail Trader
like how do they trade and it may be
even beneficial for you to put like an
overbought oversold in here like
stochastic or RSI or
CCI um maybe macd something like that
and you can see visually when Traders
would use that information and how it
will get them in
trouble so by basically arm wrestling
the things I teach versus the retail
perspectives using indicators and
whatnot time of
day the opening range Gap the uh opening
range all those things that I've been
teaching you if my tools are saying it's
going to beave a certain way and go a
different direction than that of an
indicator or some kind of retail school
of thought you have a wonderful
experiment to see which one actually is
giving you the truth at that at that
moment and it's it's extremely
Illuminating
because it feels like and I've seen so
many I've seen so many people in this
mentorship since we started this year I
don't feel like I should know this stuff
that's that's a common theme that I'm
seeing in either comments on Twitter or
or its comments left on my YouTube
videos
so all right so here we're at 9 o'clock
now
okay so now we
have
primary buy side and primary sell side
that we can identify and that is going
to be seen with I'll just borrow this
one because it's easy to do
it so we'll say this is primary
primary buy side and that's because
we've already cleared this over here and
higher than that would be over here and
that's a little bit of a ways away so
we're just trying to stay close to where
we're at right now at 9 o' close
proximity where's the liquidity at well
this is where we're at right now at 9:00
so where's the high it's that one so you
have minor here and now these lows down
here they would be primary
cell
sign not complicated at all is
it this guy complicates
trading you are a lazy ass and you're
looking for any excuse because you
thought it was going to be easy and this
ain't easy
here as an
expression if it ain't rough it ain't
right anything worth doing isn't going
to be easy but when you have the skill
set you're going to be in that small
little percentage where
people they have to use things like oh
you're part of a
cult oh you're all
brainwashed you're brainwashed you can't
you can't uh you can't talk to these
people these ICT people well yeah once
we know what we're doing no one's going
to be able to come here later on and say
what we're doing is not the right way of
doing it it doesn't no one can come here
and say you're not equipped
now they they arrive too late not today
Satan all right so we have a primary buy
side minor sell side primary sell side
we're trading at top of that Weekly buy
side and balance cell sign
efficiency we've had a cell sign balance
B sign efficiency traded to here
multiple
times let's do a tape reading on this
little run here and see if it'll give a
fair value Gap once we start to break
lower and then see if it can deliver to
the minor cell side
[Music]
okay so you have a fair Val got
there one
here and you have one here too it's a
small one
should be able to see it like that
so now when you have two Fair Bay gaps
like that what do you
think if you saw this one first and you
were ignoring this one think what I
taught in the model
2022 you have to allow for price to
reach up into that second one too if
it's good and I'm not saying it's good
see that went into the second one so if
you were using this one as your entry
thinking that it would go down to the
sell side here and you didn't allow for
Price potentially trading up into the
upper one
you would got smoked
immediately because your stop loss would
have been here using this fair value G
the stop loss would have been right
above this high this candlestick's high
but here we have this fair value Gap so
you have to do what make allowance for
either waiting there's two there's two
schools of thought here you can do the
entry here and then use a wider stop
loss which I know some of you don't want
to hear that or you can wait for it to
trade there and and then see if it wants
to stab up into that one and that would
be your entry and then you can use a
little bit larger stop loss that would
be more forgiving up
here in the beginning it's it's real
hard to talk to students and encourage
them to use a little bit wider stoploss
because you need that extra forgiveness
because you're you're watching someone
that can do things real real
precise and it's like getting else you
as a little boy I used to watch
Spider-Man swing around and do crazy
stuff and I thought well if I go outside
and I put my ski mask on as a
kid and I'm going to run around with my
under RS on I could climb over cars and
jump off of buildings and land and not
hurt myself until I try to do it then I
hurt myself so you got to give yourself
a little bit more uh flexibility and
forgiveness in the beginning so you're
not going to be a web Slinger in the
beginning you're going to have to be a
little bit more uh slow
and allow yourself a lot more
flexibility and being less accurate more
likely to be
wrong right
here that neutralizes it
the other thing I find hard uh teaching
new students is using the lowest
leverage they don't ever want to listen
they don't ever want to listen to that
they want to use the biggest leverage
and it's because they're being
influenced by other people and I'm sure
I have some measure of influence over
them too because they see what I'm doing
in my
examples if you can't find consistency
and profitability with just one contract
even if it's micro you're not going to
make more money when you're trading with
larger leverage okay so that would
cancel this
one now with the market trading below
this low here inside that Weekly buy
side and B sell side efficiency this
inefficiency now if it trades down to it
if it trades to it here and sends it
back higher any future fair value Gap
that would form after it trades this and
sends it higher that could be a catalyst
to send price back up
to primary buy
side so in this case this fair value gut
that we were watching in and doing a
case study
on this could be could potentially be
what inversion
so now you can study it this
way you don't want to be doing the demo
entries on nonr payroll week on
Wednesdays you tape read Because if
you're doing actual pushing in the
buttons and seeing stop losses getting
hit or targets getting hit you're
tricking yourself at the worst time
you're feeding yourself bad data
basically what it
is but there's nothing wrong with going
in and just and watching and observing
price instead of just blindly staring
into it and thinking okay what's it
doing if it starts moving One Direction
real fast I'll Chase it with a demo
entry that's that's the worst thing to
be
doing and most of every student I had
for Forex that's the perspective they
had when I when they came in they're
like you know why aren't you short now
when I'd be live streaming and it it
gone up like 15 uh uh
15 Pips
which is nothing is insignificant right
but they'd be like in the in the
comments like why aren't you long here
why don't you go long here I'm like
there's nothing to do we're literally
observing there's things in motion we
have to wait for it to to provide more
information you're sitting still
for a real reason basically not because
of ignorance you want to take high
probability low risk
entries all right now see what we did in
in
here came back up showed no willingness
to come off of this to show
displacement is that a losing trade no
because the idea was what it has to go
down to it and then start sending price
higher and then after it starts to Rally
a fair value G that would form then
would be used not oh it's going through
this inversion fair value Gap they don't
hold it wasn't supposed to hold it's
supposed to stop then allow price to run
away then the fair bag G was the form
later
on all right so
now this grief this
becomes its
original when it was a sell side balance
by side and efficiency below price that
is a classic bearish fair value Gap if
it trades up to it here it becomes what
a reclaimed bearish fair value Gap
and the focus is here volume imbalance
right there watch that one too so we
could jump up redeliver and do Patchwork
in here and maybe Spike on a wick to the
bottom of that uh fair value Gap and
then see if it wants to run to the cell
side you're inside the volume IM balance
right
now that's this separation right here
remember all we're doing is we're
studying all of this range bound price
action we're just studying over the the
lens of a
15c
Candlestick so here's the volume balance
if you remember being in
school like in chemistry and physics and
whatnot I had engineering classes and
stuff when we were in in class we always
had these experiments we had
Laboratories basically called it and we
had the ability of sitting in and
usually had a partner or you had a small
group of other students and we were
doing some kind of observation uh we
were doing tests we
were measuring the incubation cycle of
chicken eggs you know we we we did all
kinds of stuff in school and that that's
why science and math were always
exciting to me English I sucked that
everything else I sucked that um but
those two those studies
were my that's my forte and Mathematics
was my my go-to and when we're looking
at Price action the the the closest
thing I can try to encourage new
students to do is treat your study of
price action like a
laboratory like a like a like a case
study of you doing like forensics on it
like what's the fine details in here
okay and and when you listen to people
like uh Anton creel from U his little
stint when he was a reality star for the
BBC he his stuff that he puts on YouTube
will say and I'm sure it was directed to
me because I
was I was really making fun of his Blue
Suede Shoes one time and he blocked me
but I uh he says we're not doing
technical science here and that's what I
was like you know what that's exactly
what we do here okay so I took that from
him he used it as like a a like a
ribbing like a like an insult but I like
you know what that's exactly that's a
badge of honor we are absolutely doing
technical science here so you're really
going in price action and watching and
does price continuously give feedback
that would be measured as a pro or a con
for a delivery of price action are you
seeing the things that you would expect
to see if it was going to be a sustained
price run to a high or an old level and
you're constantly looking for these
things the main takeaway we're at the
we're at the top of that Weekly buyid
bound cellid efficiency and it can touch
again that that volume and balance but
what happens if it spikes up with a wick
and hits
this and then drops is that something
that's bad no it's something that's
reasonable given the type of climate
we're in this week we we are past the
easy days of this week that was Monday
and Tuesday so Wednesday becomes what
harder it's going to be a lot more
challenging for you if you don't know
what you're doing it's going to be very
very challenging for you to be able to
see what price is going to do
next think about that in terms of when
you read these books that people write
or they have courses or they do
mentorships or they have live you know
analysis and
signals if they are not emphasizing
and using terms like this is difficult
right now or they're they're not
describing and I'm not saying that
they're not saying um something useful
when they say oh it's the markets just
going nowhere right now that's a that's
a that's a realistic observation and I
could I could say that that's it's good
but when they just to conveniently say
oh it's just choppy right
now that's like a
a it's an Escape mechanism for them and
instead of saying I don't know what the
Market's doing right
now how hard is that I don't know what
the Market's going to do right
now you're going to hear me hear me say
those things when the market is having
Intervention when there's the hand in
there moving things around that the
algorithm is no longer in control of
price they are pushing and manipulating
price well then I have no idea what
price is going to do then and why should
that be upsetting you would expect that
right
so see this up close candle here in that
volume
imbalance my eye goes to this every
single
time every single time I want to put
annotation on it
jumps come on I'll fix it when I'm drag
it
over right
there all right and then that would
be this see normally when you're above
that Bice B cell sign efficiency coming
back down into it it's acting as what a
bullish fair value Gap that's its
initial classification but if it trades
down below it and you're bearish this
becomes a inversion fair value Gap and
you want to see things treat treated to
heaviness you want to see price remain
heavy at the midpoint of it or to the
low of it and not explore the up upper
part of it
but
um having an understanding of where
you're going to have difficulty and not
having an ego about being able to admit
either to yourself in your Journal where
nobody sees that there's a volume
imbalance right in here it's just
repricing back to that
the the implementation of social media
for Traders is cancer like you're you're
making
everything so much more harder for
yourself if you don't know what you're
doing like I get out here and I clown
around you know I troll I do a lot of
stuff sometimes it's very subtle you
don't realize it but other times it's
obvious the
uh some of my newer
younger uh male students they want to
emulate me in that regard and that's the
part I don't want you want to do because
it's that's just me doing things to
ruffle the feathers
you want it because you want to feel
like you are the main character and if
you remove all these instances where you
don't have to be fearful of admitting
that you don't know something right now
and it's important for you to recognize
how how it is that you're going to be
incorrect where are those instances
where looking at Price action and not
knowing what it's likely to do and
observing that you are now met with the
difficulty the task is next to imposs
possible at that given moment why would
you want to sit in front of your charts
and press the button but think about it
I guarantee you you can remember times
where you knew you shouldn't be doing
what you're about to do and that's
exactly when you blew your account
that's exactly when you had your largest
losing trade that's exactly when you
lost your funded account you blew your
combine something happened where you
have had the worst possible outcome that
could have happened at that given moment
but you knew going in that there was
something going on price that you didn't
quite understand but you just went the
around and find out and you
did now contrast that with the way I
teach I have a long way around the barn
I do a lot of talking because I'm
talking to my kids I'm counseling them
if they ever come to me with a
question they know what's going to
happen I'm going to give them an hour
answer because I want them to understand
the ramifications of
subscribing to the view I'm going to
give them what the pros and cons are
going to be what other people are going
to say what they should see from doing
it and then reminding them that you're
probably going to get a different
outcome too but you asked me for this so
there it is and Caleb will tell you like
I know if I come to you and I ask you a
question I have to make sure I've made
time for this because you don't ever
answer things short and sweet and it's
because I want them to understand my
answer not just that D what do you think
well you grass is green the sky is blue
okay now why the is the grass green
dad and why does the sky look blue and I
go through the process of explaining all
that stuff so that way they don't just
say dad thinks this Dad believes this no
dad knows his stance on this based on
this is what he told us and that's why I
do what I do in the descriptions of
price runs and how the formulate this
routine of reading it there's going to
be times where even with my information
my Concepts it's not going to work out
for any of you so isn't it beneficial to
know when that's likely to occur to
ignore it to pretend it's not going to
ever happen is a myopic perspective like
you're you're you're asking to
fail it's been too many times coming
back up in that volume and balance
and we're about 8 minutes away from the
opening
[Music]
bell I wished I would have been more
interested in spending
time finding my
faults where I was initially trying to
hide them from myself and I would punish
myself in my journals I would really it
would be very jarring it felt like
therapy you know cussing myself out in
my journal and as I wrote it out I feel
you sometimes I would laugh to myself
like that's right you deserve everything
I just said to yourself right there but
then once I'm done and I'm going and
doing something else taking a drive
working because I had a job then it
would I would think about what I said
about myself and I'm thinking myself man
if someone else said that about me that
would make me feel terrible and I'm
doing it to myself and as soon as I felt
that I dismissed it real quick so what
was I doing I was allowing demons the
fester and I was making let them I'm
letting them make home in my mind in my
thought process and it's extremely
toxic when I when I started looking at
things that would help me not think that
way and I didn't hold myself up to I
have to be perfect in my expectation in
the marketplace I have to see these
things every single time because I saw a
pattern of me getting it right and my my
Concepts were starting to flesh out but
then I would have these instances where
nothing was working like nothing made
any bit of sense and the market would
just behave in a manner that was
erratic when if we get below here
because it can still say no thank you
but right below these lows this chart on
left hand side is a 5 minutes chart so
below that is minor cell side that it's
at
is so if it goes below that I would be
interested in
seeing a lot of speed to get down to
upset the cell side here that's still
good if it wants to go higher it doesn't
change it to make it
bearish it just means that would be a
logical place for it to dump at the
opening bell and then everybody think
wow it's really bearish and then they
start sending it back up higher that be
a wonderful opportunity I I would
manipulate price like that if it was me
that's exactly what I would do but I'm
not in control of price
though but the
uh observations that I started making
and looking at where my journal entries
were extremely toxic like really really
toxic um bad days upper right hand
corner of my journals I'd have an
X that was that was my way when I was
going through because everything I do is
it's handwritten like I don't do
electronic journaling you all have the
advantage of it today but I didn't have
that technology back then in the 90s so
I never wanted to transition
from the high Touch of journaling with a
pen and and leather journals to doing it
electronically I don't have the
advantage of going in s like sorting and
searching for for things by keyword or
date I don't I don't have that ability
to do that
so if I want to go back and I I can
remember certain months out of certain
years where I had really really
wonderful instances of things painting
out wonderfully for me but also have
very very very bad memories where I know
generally I have some of the dates
memorized because it was traumatic
sometimes I forget my own kids'
birthdays but I can remember the days
where I lost a lot of money and when I
was experiencing that stuff obviously I
would Journal and then at the top of the
page upper right hand
corner I'd have an X there so whenever I
wanted to go through days that were
there's your run to the cell side so you
would to be able to journal that so we
were looking at it up
here top of the B B cell efficiency
inversion fair value Gap the volume and
balance hammered it one more time and
then delivered to the minor cell side so
these are all the things that I was
fleshing out early on as a 20-year-old
like I was trying to figure out how I
could bridge the gap between what I
understood about how price was
transitioning to 100% electronic and no
more open out
cry how how can this be
bridged how can I see price in a manner
where electronically it's going to
deliver to
here but it the market never does well
let me let may not say it like that
rarely does the market ever do things
like move from where we first started
watching and observing and looking for
it to go lower it never just simply
does a drop straight down from where you
see an entry potentially at from the
time you see an entry and this is where
you think it's going to go in your mind
as a new
student you think that okay my entry is
here so now I expect it one Candlestick
to go right down here and is if it
doesn't do that every new candle it
creates that hasn't really rushed to get
down there feels like an
eternity so you have to learn to submit
the time and what I would do in in in
the early stages of my development I was
codifying all these Concepts is I
understood that the market was going to
go to this liquidity I understood that
part but I had to have a way
where I could see multiple instances of
where I see a setup forming and where
the market could go to okay that's my
range of
opportunity that range of opportunity
needs to be
defined what do you mean by that it
needs to be defined if I know that
there's liquidity below these lows over
here then it's not just getting to that
price point is the OB objective it's to
get to that price point and then below
it because it needs to engage that
liquidity so if I see this volume in
balance as a initial Inception of a
price
run and this is a Terminus to liquidity
that makes sense you you all as my
students even if you're brand new if you
were watching just this stream for the
first time would I just explain you may
not know the volume IM balance of what
the me you know mechanics are around it
it's not necessary right now but
if you think
that prices are going to move from that
level down to this level because there's
liquidity there then we have to consider
where is the ideal entry points and at
what point does the probability being
high diminish from being high
probability entries to lower probability
entries and that's where I ring in the
premium to discount so if I just H if I
highlight
this and uh
no I don't want to do that let's do it
like this from the
entry to where I believe the Terminus
was right below that relative equal low
here we have one more minute now I'll
finish this real quick here is the
equilibrium price point so at that price
point or above anything that could be
used as an entry is a premium notice how
everything below
it you don't want to use as an entry
because you're so close to where it's
going to go but look at the volume in
Balance it's in a premium relative to
the midpoint of where you believe it's
going to go and where you believe the
Inception of the move begins this is
your point of interest that that PD
array that's where the Inception of the
move the beginning of the move and the
Terminus is where you think it's trying
to reach
to so by Framing that every time you
take a trade you have to know where it's
going to go your target that's Terminus
and where you're trying to get in at and
then from there you frame where premium
in discount is
discount is below if we're trying to
sell short you can't sell short in
discount you got to sell short in
premium right back to Embers everybody
got all right opening
bell the fireworks have
started sorry you're probably G to hear
my wife coughing she's uh gotten sick
because of my youngest son him being
sick so keep me in prayer because I
don't want to get that crud because
they're fighting some nasty
stuff let's do uh regular trading hours
all right so we have a discount
Gap take this stuff off
here all right so we have a
rather every single time every time man
there go so mid
Gap
is right here at
19965 so again 70% of the time the first
30 minutes that usually gets traded
to and now we can go back to electronic
trading
hours and we're looking for the
potential run down into primary cell
side this little Gap in here that might
be a speed bump if it get if it gets
down there it doesn't mean it has to go
down there
[Music]
let's go to a one minute chart on the
left hand
[Music]
side okay now remember the opening Gap
is the initial bias Caleb the first 30
minutes if you gap down the first 30
minutes your your primary focus is
looking up to the midpoint of the
Gap let's over here that's this price
level right
there and boom there it
is so once again you're seeing this
those odds I tell you about panning
out if you look for
um ways to trade Turtle suit one of the
things you can practice is if you have
the opening range Gap and it
is at least 40
handles or more
um this that's like that's like my
minimum you know for interest on the
first 30 minutes if it's a larger Gap
then I'm really interested on the day
and I'm going to try most likely do most
my leverage that can be afforded to on
that that given trading day 75 handles
opening range Gap that's really
good but here every single day if you
have 40 handles or whatnot you have a
range to trade that first 30 minute
opening range if we gap down it can
trade up to that midgap price level if
it does something like this where we've
already identified minor cell side and
we have a low like this trading down
into it like that you can do a Buy on a
stop where it it allows the market to
put you in
anyone that
would look at Turtle soups like this and
think how do you know where to buy there
are instances where I can be buying
below the low but other times like today
I was looking for an opportunity for it
to see if it could go a little bit lower
but if you want to trade Turtle soups
using the opening range Gap mid
consequent encroachment level as a draw
for that first 30 minutes when it breaks
below the low like this all you have to
do is take the Candlestick that right
before this candle uh low was formed
what candle pierced it this one so if
you take that and you use the open of it
if it's a down closed candle what are
you essentially doing you're identifying
a order block but you can trade inside
that candle and use its opening price to
buy on a stop so then you could be a
buyer here trade up to the opening range
Gap midpoint consequent encroachment
done you're out small little high
frequency trading uh entry and te back
test it you'll see it it it's it's many
times a wonderful way to trade Turtle
soups that's a mechanical entry very
very mechanical because if the market
kept going lower would you have been
filled no because the buy stop would
have never been triggered so it has to
trade to that price point and then once
it goes to it it kicks you in just like
a stop loss would be if you were short
it would knock you out well in this case
because you don't have an existing
position open what what's the me what's
the mechanism behind it you're buying
from a position of flat your sideline
but now the only order that's executing
is when price trades to that opening
price it would trip you in long because
it's a buy
stop and then once that
occurs you Rite it to the mid gap which
is what you see here and look at the
price has done since then you think
that's
random mid Gap drop down now aim for the
cell side over here
the equal
[Music]
loes remember show in the 80s Mr
Wizard's
world one of my students
said you're like our our version of Mr
Wizard some of you young guys and GS out
there I don't know what that is just
Google it you'll see is there I used to
watch the show to it was it was neat
because he would do like these little
experiments he'd take baking soda and
put it in this little thing here and you
do this and do that and something that
your mom would come home and see you
mess around with after school be like
what the hell are you doing
Michael I'm just doing what this guy on
the TV did what the hell why do you have
my out of here put that stuff back
in the cabinet and I'd be in trouble
right but that's what that's what you
need to do as a as a Trader you need to
study get in here and Tinker around and
see what these little candlesticks do
together how they communicate how they
behave with one
another right I'm going to take this
line off because it's no longer Sant to
us it's just it was just marking the
first initial minor cell
side all right see how we dug into this
Gap here with this
Wick if we can roll over and trade below
that low it should if it does so it
should have speed to drive down that
area here with the relative equal lows
I'm watching the wick on this
Candlestick right here and it's halfway
point
[Music]
now this is a little bit of
a cloudy delivery where it's not as
clean it's not real efficient but it's
better than it was the other day
so when we have less impactful news
around the days that we're watching
price action you're going to see how
price is is so nice it just creates
these really clean price runs see how
many times it keeps coming back back and
back and back and back and back still
reaching for where we're looking for it
to go to but still it's spending a whole
lot of time painting candlesticks
overlapping the previous candlesticks
range going a little bit lower but still
staying inside this group of price
ranges that are pretty much the same
things that is not a market that I love
to be in that's what you want to see
right there okay see that so we have
consequent encroachment mid Gap up here
inversion Fair Val Gap fairy Gap here
consequent encroachment there break down
then the Gap consequent encroachment on
this Wick right there stopped price went
lower to the sell side and that would be
your
laboratory for the opening range it did
the 70% strike rate of hitting the mid
Gap so opening range Gap and went to
half of it which is up here and then
used it for what that was your turning
point to get down to where where's
primary cell side so here's here's
several things that you can view I gave
you multiple instances of how you could
trade this the very specific mechanics
behind it where the entries would be
where it was going to draw
to any one of these instances could be
your
model every single one of them are all
equally effective not one of them is any
better than the other because it's what
you do with these setups in your own
hands once you get good at it like you
spend time years from now you like a 10
years 15 years from now you're going to
be able to see a whole lot more setups
where I'm sitting here casually talking
to you and now watch what it does here
watch I I can see the setups but I have
to teach in a way where I'm not trying
to convince Caleb that there's something
better than what he's trying to focus
on I have to be neutral but still point
out now watch what it's doing here watch
what it's doing here and it's fun like
to me it's like meditation and when you
can see what it's going to do and you
get to experience how it behaves after
it does it and then when it delivers
where you think it's going to go it
feels like time
travel it feels like like many of you
students are now are saying it it feels
like I'm not allowed to know this like
you feel like you're expecting to knock
at the door right like someone's coming
here hey we need to have a talk with
you so and I get it I
understand let's use that uh reference
point from up here at the inversion fair
value got let's say that you were
looking for once it broke lower down
here if it comes back up and hits the
inversion fair value G if that was to
occur you would use that as your point
of Interest the Inception of the price
run where is it to run we were pointing
down here at the relative equal
lows so if you're aiming for the
relative equal lows right
there can you see how at that midpoint
that's equilibrium to the the price run
so you're basically you're grading is
what this is called You're
grading the unrealized dealing range it
means it has not delivered down here yet
but you can
anticipate where setups are going to
form so for the question that folks are
asking how do you pick the right fair
value guy how do you know that well the
Inception of the move is here dropping
down if it breaks up Bel well breaks out
if it breaks below this low we know that
there's a stronger likelihood it's going
to reach for the relative equal lows
over
here but how can we enter I took the
initial minor cells side liquidity line
off and I said no we're TR trading right
inside this this Gap here if you look at
that where is this Gap in proximity
to the the 50% level of point of
Interest termus where you think the
Market's going to draw
to it's in the upper half right so that
means this is a premium array you can't
look at this and say how's this a
premium array when we're this far away
from that high because you don't know
the you're talking about and
exactly what you see these yahoos on
YouTube doing they're trying to talk
with my terms they have no understanding
about what it is they're doing and
that's why their students are not making
money and they're quitting and they go
and they find another ICT Mentor they
find another ICT mentor and they're
ignoring daddy who's doing this for free
literally explaining it right from the
source but you don't want to he talks
too much because I want you to know
everything about
it you think I would uh Short change my
own kids because I'm GNA go through the
process of teaching it I want to make
sure I never have to have that
conversation again I've exhausted it so
I use every bit of the available
bandwidth when I'm teaching something if
I have your attention I'm going to hold
on to it and grab it by the
throat and you're going to learn the
right way whether you like it or not or
you'll turn a video off and be stupid
okay it's your choice but knowing where
the Market's going to go and where the
Inception of the move is that's how you
frame premium to discount
and then what you can do is with that
information everything relating to that
information that you're getting in terms
of Premium to Discount you can
anticipate without even having to throw
a fib up here you can visually see that
from that inversion Fairway gap down to
the relative equal lows halfway point is
generally that
low so if there's a fair value Gap above
that well you have one here and you have
one here so if this was the first one
you saw but then you looked and saw this
what does that mean you could use this
as your entry and that's exactly what
the bodies are doing here you see that
but the higher one you have to allow for
what it to stab up into it model 2022 uh
logic this is a breakaway Gap there's no
need for it to go up to the third one
the third one is Breakaway it means it's
showing its heaviness this is one it
could trade to this is one it's most
likely going to see the body stay inside
of it and that's what you see here
see that so yes we Wick up to the higher
one we don't even bother going into this
because this is a breakaway Gap this
stops the
move it's ideal if it stays in the lower
half look real close
did it stay in the lower half yes is it
the rules repeating over and over again
is the logic still there yes that's not
buying pressure stopping that the buyers
didn't say well you know this all
collectively stop having any interest in
going higher because if you look at your
level two data yahoos that keep saying
show me your level two data show me show
me your show you that why the
didn't the orders get up here tagged why
didn't they get there there's there's
orders resting there right because it
doesn't give a about those orders
it's saying no you're not
important but Michael's logic is
important and we're g to follow what he
said it's almost like I know what I'm
doing it almost knows like it's
dead so the bodies trade up into it and
the bulk of the volume is shown in the
bodies The Narrative is determined by
what the bodies are are telling you but
the damage where it takes the unlearned
the the people that are unskilled the
street money they are the victims inside
the
Wicks smart money is tracked by watching
bodies that's what's occurring so when
individuals in the capacity of a smart
money
Trader when they're trading price
they're focusing on the bodies of the
candles that's what they're they're F
every all of them are following the same
logic that I'm showing you here but
they're not concerned about this because
they know that you're all you're all
Canon all of you without having this
information you're all Canon fod that
means you're going to get blown away
because you don't know it you're
you're brought up in this industry right
from Jump Street with ignorance with
everything that's taught to you with
retail stuff you're literally being fed
poison and you don't even realize it and
they put a little bit of sugar on it by
allowing influencers to do certain
and then you think wow you know I want
to trade whatever the hell is that's you
know you know exciting right now with
people putting fast cars and and girls
barely clothed and whatnot rented Villas
and you think wow I could have that if I
traded with this and it's easy
all I got to do is put it on my chart
and just tell me if it's going to be a
buy or
sell and it's not important that doesn't
make the market go up or
down and having this understanding will
change everything about what you're
[Music]
doing just take a peek over here on this
one minute chart
okay we cleared primary cell side went
to the lower quadrant of the weekly b
side and balance cell side efficiency
the remaining portion of the Gap that
means anything above here there's buy
side resting right there so they're
going to make a a run for them all of
these gaps over here now because you're
part of what this is part of the cell
side of the curve all this drop down now
we're going up so look at this like a
rock surface of a mountain okay or a
rock climber if it wants to go back up
and run for that b side up
here it can use all the reference points
over here as footholds and handholds to
pull itself up to attack that buy side
it doesn't need to do that folks it can
go straight up and just run right for it
and that sometimes is what you'll end up
seeing in days and weeks of non-farm
payroll where it just runs away to get
the Stop and it doesn't really give you
a chance to get on that that last little
bit of a move that's also characteristic
of manual intervention it's also
characteristic of nonar payroll weeks
where if you're a new student of mine
and I'm teaching you how to use PD
arrays and all of a sudden you see this
big sudden run boom it just takes off
and goes right for the stops you're
going to send me an email you're going
to send me comments you're gonna say but
look what it did here it didn't do
anything and I can't see right and
that's because the characteristic of the
market being manipulated it's not
affording anyone to get get on that move
because they're running for the
stops and if you're a brand new student
that's a very hard thing to communicate
and to understand because it's like wait
a minute like I'm looking for patterns
I'm looking for something to get into a
tradeit you're talking about how
people's stops are being targeted this
sounds like conspiracy theory and that's
why they they let that type of thing go
out in the public they keep people in
there turning the the the water saying
oh they're not going after your stop oh
not targeting your stop are you nuts
like seriously that's exactly what
they're doing like they're doing that
all the time that's the lifeblood of the
marketplace like without liquidity
nothing's going
on nothing's going on no one's trading
no one's getting filled without
liquidity you can't get your long one if
somebody ain't willing to be a seller
and I can't get my short on unless
somebody's on the other side trying to
be a buyer that's liquidity that's what
makes the markets go around
okay but that liquidity is scheduled to
be taken
in at a specific time of day it's
scripted and the algorithm doesn't need
to know how many contracts or how many
Lots in Forex are resting above or below
relative equal lows or individual highs
or lows
so
anyway I got about eight minutes and
then I'm going to Cut Dat with y'all
it's fun when you sit down and you just
lay down all your preconceived ideas
about me as a person whatever you think
you know about the markets and say let
me just listen this man and let let me
hear what he has to say and then watch
what I point out in price and how it
should behave and how it should deliver
and you think about that it's like
wow there's no excitement
there's no
uh no concern for being incorrect about
it and we're all just watching price
deliver and we're looking for signatures
in price action that are
repeating and if there's something that
you're seeing that's repeating over and
over and over again that's the stuff
you're supposed to be writing down in
your journal the things that you're
having the questions pop up in your head
about that's the early onset of you
having a model fleshing out in your own
hands it may not be the fair value G you
may be seeing something else don't go on
to Twitter and say hey I'm paying
attention to this and this is what my
eye keep seeing because really what
you're asking for me to do is cosign say
yeah I see you I recognize you today and
to give you like the that a boy or that
a girl and that way then you can start
doing videos and say yeah ICT coign this
he gave me the the approval he he
touched my shoulders with his with his
sword and now I'm knighted okay
if you are seeing something in the
charts just recognize it and start
observing it record it Journal it
screenshot it when you see something
even if I'm not talking about it
screenshot
it and real quickly you know just send
yourself a text message or or whatnot
about what it is that you want to do
more research on but still watch the
live stream live if you have the ability
to watch it live there's nothing better
than that
for folks that can't be here live you
have the the next best thing because the
recordings are never edited I can't edit
them once the live stream is done
YouTube has it and they're never ever
Auto they're never augmented there's
nothing ever any kind of change to it
now I might change the title and add
something after the fact because you
know I might in include something in the
discussion but the content and the
things I say during the live stream
they're never changed either I'm right
or wrong it does what I said it's going
to do or it's not going to do it and or
whatever I said is is how it is if I
make a mistake and say something that
was mislabeled which because I'm not
using a script and I'm doing it live and
I'm doing it over very very low time
frames I'm human so I'm going to make a
mistake like that you don't realize how
many times I'm making a mistake saying
things in the pre-recorded videos where
I have to go through and edit these
things out sometimes I'll like in the
pre-recorded videos you never hear me
cussing because I never wanted to have
that part in the in those pre-recorded
videos but you can hear I cuss because
if I see something and it makes me think
about how I want to discuss something
and then because I'm thinking about how
I see people literally talking out of
their ass they have no idea what they're
talking about or they'll misrepresent my
Concepts or me or my students or say
that this stuff doesn't
work like I'm I'm trying to throttle
them because I'm literally out here
proving that they're they're idiots like
they're idiots anyone that says that
this stuff doesn't work at this point
now is someone that should not even be
listened to I I don't mind being trolled
and have you know a jab at me once in a
while it's that's fine it's fun but if
you're going to stay here and you're
constantly the same guy all the time
saying that didn't happen you didn't do
this you didn't do that you're not
watching the streams you're not paying
attention to it because I'm I'm calling
it I'm outlining it how it should
deliver where it should go and you Lots
me doing executions now too with one
contract
$3,800 one contract so if you were
trading with a $10,000 account that's
38% with one contract in one day
didn't do the math on that did
you and that was just me playing
around just playing
around what happens when you do that
five days a week London session New York
session trade the lond lunch macro PM
session last hour
trading
400% come on that's a two-day
holiday get the out of here
so in the final minutes I want you to
think about
how you have to start
scheduling low energy input during the
times where there is high impact news
drivers like the non-front payroll that
we're going to have on
Friday Thursday and Friday of non-front
payroll they are a no touch day if
you're brand new don't even touch it
don't do nothing you can trade the
pre-market session before nine
o'clock on Wednesday but as soon as we
get to nine o'clock if you haven't had a
trade don't do anything if you're a new
student don't do anything at
all I want to see it run from here up to
midgap and expand
higher so midgap is this red level here
and above that we
have primary buy side so I would expect
that to be the draw going into
lunch all right so um but I want you to
think about how you can go into your
economic calendar study that and look
for high impact news drivers not the
medium impact ones medium impact news
drivers they can be traded that's not a
big deal but high impact news drivers if
they are again in closing
fomc they're usually the afternoon
events 2 o'clock 2:30 2-stage
delivery then you have
CPI
PPI nonfarm payroll they are 8:30
delivery so you know what time they're
going to occur if you look at economic
calendar you know every single month
what day they're going to
occur so all you have to determine then
is when in the week are those days of
those reports being
released if it's on a Thursday or Friday
then you know that their best trading is
going to be on Monday and or Tuesday if
the report is on a Monday or a Tuesday
that means you do nothing at the
beginning of the week and then you'll
have Salad Days easier Trading as the
rest of the week trades
on but you have to see where that report
lays inside of the week is it on a
Monday is it on a Tuesday is it on a
Wednesday is it on Thursday and is it
Friday and how that lands on the
calendar what day of the week it it
falls on will help you look at the
information I put in my 2017
mentorship lessons where I teach the
weekly profiles how the weekly
Candlestick will
paint and by using economic calendar you
can kind of like get a feel for oh yeah
there if I'm bullish generally on a
higher time frame and then I see a CPI
PPI number or like this week we have
nonfarm payroll so we've already
satisfied the move going down into this
blue shaded area which is that Weekly
buyid and balance sell on efficiency
just watch the first 15 minutes of
Monday's live
stream okay if you watch that you'll see
exactly what I'm talking about where
that information came from it delivered
it perfectly
so because it's a non paper week it's
already done enough for me I don't need
to do anything
else for you when you're looking at your
economic calendars it's a real good
study for for you to do it when we're
done with the live stream or tonight if
you go home from work or from University
or whatever it is you're doing pull up
an eonon calendar go to forexfactory.com
or Econo
day calendar and look it for instance uh
October where is the CPI number where's
the PPI number any
fomc then look at uh November do the
same thing and look at what day those
high impact red folder events PPI CPI
fomc and nonfarm payroll those are the
the Destroyers okay they are the the the
Reapers that are going to come through
your Harvest and tear it all
up they're they're the rot in your
Harvest so you have to be careful being
around them because if you lay your good
money around them they're going to
infect and and cause it to Decay too so
cut that stuff out of your trading don't
allow that that that report or the
manipulation around it to affect what
you have built or what you're building
so since you're all trying to harvest
money think about it like that if if
you're cultivating this this opportunity
of making money in the marketplace
you're basically creating a
farm
and you want to be able to harvest this
continuously and have a healthy Farm of
income these
reports are like a
plague if you don't offer any
opportunity for them to touch your
Harvest then you can't be affected by
them but you have to be aware of them
because
when they're in in the field that means
in the week that you're trading you have
to handle yourself
carefully because they have an effect
before the day of its release and they
have a specific effect after their
release trading gets easier on the other
side of them trading against them up to
the point of the release of that data is
harder than it needs to be so if you
understand that simple characteristic
that's not complicated is it it's pretty
simple
straightforward but you wouldn't get
that you know and me talking about a
five minute video because you're going
to have a thousand different questions
and I covered a lot of questions that
would have came up otherwise by
everything I said today so know your
calendar know your events know your
characteristics how price is going to
behave know what day of the week the
reports are going to come out non-farm
payroll Friday it's built-in thing it's
always a first Friday of the month
generally and then there it is you know
it's going to be a Friday event so if
it's going to be non-farm payroll
trading that protocol is you have to
trade the Monday you absolutely have to
trade the Monday because Monday's
trading on nonr payroll is easy trading
it's easy easy easy trading and Tuesday
can be rather decent as well but soon as
we get
into London of Tuesday my local time in
in the United States you think about New
York local
time the London session of Wednesday
which would be technically um Tuesday
night going into Wednesday morning for
me that London session usually is the
last bit of good price action and then
when we get to the New York session it
tends to become
messy but if you look at London last
night that was a show because
everything that's going on between Iran
and Israel so because they're lobbing
each other with uh
you terrible weapons of
Destruction the market makers are are
they're they were using London to set
the stage for this morning and you watch
what we did this morning we mapped it
out looked at what was likely to happen
with no
emotion I mean I'm sure it was fun when
it was going to where we said it was
going to go and you probably smiled or
you probably slapped your knee and said
hot damn this ICT did it again and
that's fun that's cool but it's not it's
not something you should try to hop
yourself up about and the same thing
don't be fearful or upset when it
doesn't deliver when you're studying
you're doing a laboratory that's all it
is it's simply is a laboratory
experiment and you're trying to get the
data collected with experience the
experience is the
data you seeing price do these things
repeating over and over and over again
and if you don't record it if you don't
Journal it if you don't screenshot it if
you don't write down
what it is that you are
observing I don't like iPhones I will
never own another Apple device and ever
I will never have another one they're
trash I will never have one but
your phone has a voice recorder if you
have an iPhone Samsung has something
equivalent to that as
well while you're watching the live
stream okay you can have a digital
recorder too like I have a digital
recorder like sometimes um when I'm
driving around
I can't stop and pull over and write
down stuff I used to do that when I was
working as a a vendor but now I always
keep a digital recorder you know in
either in my vet or in my SUVs or
wherever I'm driving I don't ever have
it in my wife's car because I'm I'm not
allowed to do that kind of stuff when
I'm with her I'm simply just with her
but if I could sneak one in there I
would but the the idea of having a a
voice recording while you're watching
the live stream like if you're if you
see something like right now we're
watching
this it's at
10:06 okay so six minutes after 10 um I
I want to look into why price is
expanding lower after it went back to
the consequent CR of the mid mid Gap and
then there it is because unless you
are logging something because my videos
tend to be long
not this one because we're we're getting
ready to close it the the
uh and that's not a joke it's not a CL
line I'm telling you I'm closing it but
I every time I say something it's got a
little bit more detail I need to add to
it by you recording it in digital format
you're not writing anything down you're
still watching price and you're probably
still hearing what I'm saying but you're
not as attentive but at least you're
making a notation about what you want to
specifically go back into because if you
don't do that I'm going to say something
else in the video
or eventually there's going to be a day
where I get it entirely wrong I mean you
have a couple weeks left right I might
get it entirely wrong and then you're
going to be met with that as something
to wrestle with
wow man he went like eight weeks and a
half of consistently being able to say
what was going to happen but today he
was really off today and you won't
retain anything that was said or
something that you would have been
thinking about going back and doing your
own research on because you didn't write
it down because you didn't record it and
a v a
a voice recording is the easy way for
taking notes and then you listen to that
note visual I'm sorry U audible note and
you write it down your Journal as a
question or whatever it is that you were
trying to do that calls specific
attention to it um for those that have
the ability to sit down here and write
down you're just going to write down at
10 minutes I'm sorry 10 minutes at at 7
minutes after 10 uh on the 15sec
chart um fair value
Gap question mark or whatever that
interest or concern was just write it
down but this still keep watching the
live stream some of you don't want to do
that then that's why you you don't watch
it live because you don't necessarily
want to be doing anything to copy me so
you're going to get the same experience
that way when you watch the stream you
can pause it rewind it again pause pause
it write down your stuff and that's fine
and that avoids having a second watch of
it but for those that are going to watch
it live you either going to have to
watch the stream twice or do voice
recordings you have it on your
smartphone just have it in your hand and
then when you see me talking about
something or you see something in the
chart that I'm not referring to but
you're like wow I need to take a look at
this later on if you don't do that
you're probably G to forget about it and
that's terrible because
I I've learned my lesson
so by having a a voice recorder it's a
little digable voice recorder it doesn't
cost that much to have
them when I'm driving around I'll get an
idea usually about lectures usually
something that I want to teach on or
I'll I'll have questions that certain
students in my private mentorship have
asked me and I have deferred answering
them or deferred putting them into the
next lecture like this and predominantly
it's most of the things I'm talking
about are actually questioned
that I know would come up in my son's
mind while I'm talking about certain
things and if it's not that it's
questions that my paid private
mentorship students that no one can join
I'm not doing a private mentorship for
money anymore just stop asking you can't
join it but I have to tell you that this
is the the framework of majority of why
I talk so much because I'm answering
their questions you're not privy to what
they're asking you're not part of that
Community but I am obligated to that
Community because they paid to be in
that position so when they ask questions
I look for opportunities how I can show
them in realtime price action it's all
together something different if I just
simply said well you're asking about
when a fair value Gap can become an
inversion fair value Gap and what time
of the day does that become problematic
and when is it more likely to occur well
when I talk about over price action live
they see me explain it before it
actually develops so not only do I get a
chance to explain to them and and answer
their question but I'm also
demonstrating it with prowess and
ability and skill set to prove that it's
not something in hindsight so everything
that I do when I'm talking is methodical
it's not because I love the sound of my
own voice because in fact I don't like
the way I sound but I do want to make
sure that my students and my children
that are watching these
videos they understand to degree that
I'm willing to share because I I don't
want them to know just a little piece of
it I want you to understand in
intimately like I want you to know every
aspect about this specific thing and
what things have an impact on it what
things are not that impactful for what
you're watching me
discuss that's mentoring that's someone
that knows exactly what they're doing
and understands the source material
otherwise I'm going to talk about it
after it happens like everybody else is
going to do and you're not learning that
way you could just do the same thing
think about it some of you are paying
money to people and they're talking
about in Market replay you know
what an order block is by the term and
you can probably go back through the
charts and look at Mark replay and say
oh look look here's a down close candle
and it went down into that later on at
this certain time what I never would
have expected it because I don't know
what I'm doing so therefore I can now
talk about this actually happening and
you could talk to yourself in the same
way and save the money you're
not learning from these people they're
talking about yesterday's Headline News
and they're putting a price tag on it
hey pay me for yesterday's
newspaper come on man if you know you
know that's that's the but when
you can come out here and say what the
headlines are going to be tomorrow and
then the headlines are what you said
it's going to be and then you can prove
it down to a 15c
interval suddenly there's something
different there's a stark contrast there
and that's why I do what I do I I stay
in an area in a small little Inner
Circle or nobody else gets to step into
it's just me I'm in here by myself and
in that little tiny Circle I allow my
experience to be
viewed by commentary by lectures and I
share my experience with you and over
time being exposed to that experience
you will adopt your own experience and
that is the collection of the data that
you are harvesting when we do these live
streams whenever you watch my old
pre-recorded videos it's the same thing
you should be listening and if you see
something in there that's outside the
scope of what I'm talking about take
note of that because what's actually
occurring is your subconscious is keyed
up on something that is drawing your
attention to it it's
interested your your reticular
activating system is keyed up on this
very thing and if you don't pay
attention to it you might actually slow
your progress
down if you see something that's
inviting your curiosity explore it have
fun with it it may be another pdra it
might be a propulsion
block it might be a institutional order
entry drill it might be simply the
breaker it could be an inversion breaker
where someone would see a higher high
and it breaks down and it looks like a
market struct structure shift lower and
if it trades back up to the low of the
uh bearish breaker you think that that's
a short but what happens if it's really
higher time frame bullish it's going to
trade up to that bearish breaker and
trade above its candle that makes the
breaker and then use that as a bullish
order
block that might be your model that
might be your go-to
thing but if you don't explore these
little early stages of curiosity this is
the fun part of your your journey right
now folks like this is the fun part this
is the most exciting part because once
you know what you're doing it's
boring
like it is boring as looking at
these candlesticks and saying yeah this
is what it's going to do and you lose
all that magic of that that aha moment
that moment of astonishment that first
experience in your own hands it's like
losing your virginity the first time
it's like wow I'll never be able to live
this again I'll never be able to have
that moment again and it's amazing you
literally have this once in a lifetime
experience every single time you learn
something new about that one individual
uh topic because once you know it the
magic's gone the novelty wears off quick
it's literally on to the next thing
because I have lots of shiny new objects
so if your subconscious is keying up on
something that's outside of the scope of
my conversation in the lecture don't
don't ignore that do not ignore
that I try to Foster the flexibility in
you as the student to let your s your
personality and what you're interested
in because I don't know what you're
studying what you spent the most time in
and you don't realize you're doing it
either in the beginning you might go in
thinking I'm gonna do what Caleb's doing
I'm gonna learn the fair value G I'm
gonna do Cale uh Cameron's model I'm
gonna trade the Silver Bullet I'm gonna
use Michael's daughter's model for 2022
or I'm going to use the optimal trade
entry all this extra stuff I've
been sticking with OT I'm OG for OT okay
wonderful you got your model wonderful
but I'm not going to stop teaching my my
kids and making content for
them because you found out you're
model that's that's great I'm glad I
want all of you to do that but if you
don't explore your initial
curiosity that you keep seeing things
pop up in the chart and I'm not drawing
your attention to it there's a lot of
things I'm seeing in price action I'm
expecting to see certain things behave
and certain candles to form this way or
that way but it's not gerain to what it
is I'm discussing at the
time I'm aware of it I got 81 ways that
I can see all these things doing stuff
but if it's not part of the discussion
at that given time it's not going to
increase the efficacy of the lecture I'm
trying to deliver it's actually going to
cause too many moving parts and it's
going to dilute the message of that
individual perspective or Focus for that
day or that session or that live stream
so anyway
um I gave you an extra 16 minutes no no
extra chart so I'm going to close this
here today I'm going to wish you all a
very pleasant day hopefully you learned
something today hopefully you were
encouraged by another tape reading
session you can see what we were looking
for and that is going to be it for today
until I'll talk to you again tomorrow um
I think if I'm not
mistaken I think we're going to do
another 8 o'clock start I'll probably
I'll probably be on time this time but
we'll try to be here tomorrow at 8 o' or
just shortly after 8 worst case scenario
because there'll be a news drop driver
at 8:30 and I want to study that with
you real time and unless the Lord takes
me home before that I will touch with
with you then and till then be safe